Edit Timeline Leap guides (#131)
zaksabeast/PokemonRNGGuides: guides/Sun and Moon/Timeline Leap Guide.md

---
title: 'Timeline Leap'
description: "A timeline can predict Pokemon a player can obtain. Timeline leap allows a player to 'leap' onto specific timelines"

> slug: 'retail-usum-timeleap'

Reviewer: Was this an intentional change to have one timeleap url?

If not, we may want to change it back:
```suggestion
slug: 'retail-sm-timeleap'
```

   - Do not check "Safe F Only".

2. Search using "Frame Range" to find a frame you want to land on.

3. Right click on the frame and "Set as Target Frame".
   - This frame will be referred to as Frame 2 from here on.
   - Any frame that shows up can be landed on with this method, so if the frame isn't a safe frame you can still use it as a target frame.

> ## Step 2: Advance frames

Reviewer 2: I don't see any comment about when you should leave the Festival Plaza / Mall to start the timeleap process

## Step 6: Calculate the timeline leap frame

> 1. Input the current frame you are on after confirming it is a safe frame into the starting frame in "Frame Range".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. After confirming your current frame is a safe frame, input it into the "Frame Range" starting frame.
```

> 2. Then choose "Timeline Leap" and click on "Calculate".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Choose "Timeline Leap" and click on "Calculate"
```

3. A window will pop up with the frame you will press `A` on. This is Frame 1.
   - For Mystery Gifts this is when you press `A` on "Yes" to accept the Pokemon
   - For menu method, this is the frame to close the menu on.
   - For the other Pokemon, it is the 3rd or 4th to last dialogue before final screen when you'll press `A` to advance the dialogue to final sceen.

## Step 7: Double check if the target frame is your desired frame

Due to the inaccurate assumption of 3DSRNGTool "Frame Range" mode, Frame 2 may or may not always have the same spread. Checking it before advancing to the next step is advised, especially for the varying NPC count case.

1. Within the window that popped up, choosing "Yes" will allow you to check that Frame 2 still has the spread you wanted.

>    - Choose "No" will allow you to check if there are any other Frame 1 that can make Frame 2 have the spread you wanted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Choosing "No" will allow you to check if there are any other Frame 1 that can make Frame 2 have the spread you wanted.
```

2. Press `A` or make a step forward on Frame 2 to obtain the Pokemon you wanted. Congratulations!

### The following are possible ways of leaping for now:

1. Dialogue

   - The game will use 1 RNG call while loading the next line of text.

2. Closing the X menu

   - The game will use 2 RNG calls for the next timing of the character fidgets.

3. Press `A` at YES/NO screen (Mystery Gifts)
   - The game will use around 10 RNG calls to generate 1 Pokemon for testing.

> Since you can jump between different timelines by choosing the leap timing, you can land on any frame of your choosing.

Reviewer 2: Also a way to say that it's not doable on wild stuff to be 100% complete ?
